[Music]
so consider this what if the dinosaurs
had never gone extinct well then the
Flintstones would be a reality show that
huh
all right about 66 million years ago an
asteroid the size of Mount Everest
traveling at 45,000 miles per hour hit
what is now the Yucatan Peninsula in
Mexico the impact started a catastrophic
chain of events that led to the
extinction of the dinosaurs which had
dominated the planet for 160 million
years it also pretty much ruined
vacations for the tourists and can't
come so if it hadn't been for this
asteroid wiping out the competition
mammals probably wouldn't have had a
chance to rise and evolve hey that means
us humans oh so that begs the question
what if that asteroid had missed what
would the earth look like today if
dinosaurs were still alive well before
we take a look at this dinosaur filled
world make sure you subscribe to our
Channel and turn on post notifications
so that you'll always be the first to
see our daily updates now just to be
clear this isn't a Jurassic Park
scenario I'm throwing at you the
dinosaurs in those movies have been
brought back to life and thrust into the
21st century whereas here we're talking
about dinosaurs never having died out in
the first place alright with that
disclaimer out of the way let's take a
look first and foremost we need to lay
down some background information
dinosaurs existed in the late Triassic
Jurassic and Cretaceous periods during
the Mesozoic era which encompassed 180
million years that of course happened
right before the Classical period with
Mozart and Beethoven well not really
earth at that time had a very warm
climate with mild seasonal changes and
no polar ice the supercontinent Pangea
had only just started to break down into
smaller land masses that would millions
of years later the
come the seven continents we know today
it's estimated that there were nearly
2,500 dinosaur species in the Mesozoic
era that came in all shapes and sizes
some herbivores grew to be nearly 110
feet long weighed 100 tons and needed to
eat about 300 pounds of food a day these
numerous species lived all across the
globe and the asteroid that destroyed
their world affected them all in
different ways depending on where they
were this infamous asteroid basically an
enormous space rock became a fireball
when confronted with friction and
gravity in the Earth's atmosphere and it
collided with a force of 100 million
megatons the impact blasted debris into
the air at 100,000 miles per hour
exploded 80 cubic miles of the Earth's
crust from the ground and triggered a
massive 11.1 earthquake that rippled out
in seismic waves from the Yucatan
Peninsula to the Pacific Northwest wow
talk about packing a punch and if that
weren't enough the air temperature
skyrocketed to a whopping 600 degrees
Fahrenheit that's hot enough to suck the
moisture right out of all the
surrounding vegetation and even boil the
water in the skin of the dinosaurs
closest to the blast zone winds strong
enough to rip through flesh and toss 30
ton animals around like dolls gusted
through the air in waves oh and all of
this happened in just five minutes
next authors Moore yep seventy billion
tons of dust and ash from the collision
filled the upper atmosphere moving at an
astounding 10,000 miles per hour this
cloud spread from modern-day Mexico to
cover the rest of the world trapping an
unrelenting heat beneath it static
electricity charged up an electrical
storm that caused fiery hail to rain
down on the animals that didn't get
wiped out at Ground Zero as the
temperatures continue to rise wildfires
powerful enough to generate their own
winds blazed through once lush Bali
and forests at nine miles per hour
burning at 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit just
so you know that's hot enough to melt
solid aluminum smaller species living in
the Western Hemisphere were able to
survive the heat underground but the big
guys like the Triceratops and t-rex were
baked alive 8,000 miles away in
modern-day Mongolia a dust superstorm
suffocated any animals out in the open
that world encompassing cloud we
mentioned earlier kept temperatures too
high to sustain plants for the few
remaining herbivores to eat a series of
tsunamis with waves towering at 300 feet
high ravage nearly 13,000 miles of coast
shock waves from the massive earthquake
continued for months
ripping tectonic plates apart like
pieces of paper molten rock forced his
way through the newly formed fractures
in the earth and dormant volcanoes were
violently awoken with huge eruptions
that expelled even more dust and debris
into the deadly cloud already
surrounding the globe this cloud had now
gotten to be a few miles thick
preventing the sun's rays from reaching
the surface what did surface though was
a number of toxic gases including
hydrogen sulfide which paralyzed the
lungs and suffocated the few dinosaurs
left at this point any remaining
dinosaurs that managed to survive all of
this starve to death from the way their
ecosystem had been so severely
devastated because of that they all had
completely died out about three months
after the asteroid collision
[Music]
contemporaries of the dinosaurs like
insects early aquatic reptiles and birds
smaller mammals and fish managed to
survive by burying themselves in trees
deep underground or underwater simpler
organisms like mold and fungus thrived
in the desolate landscape the
indestructible fern made a comeback once
the sun's energy was able to penetrate
the omnipresent dust cloud
over thousands of years these ferns grew
into forests which literally breathe new
life into the planet they produced
oxygen and gave mammals the conditions
to eat breed and evolved into the 10,000
species we see today
now finally the big question did you
click the subscribe button already wrong
question here it is what if all of that
didn't happen let's explore our options
the asteroid could have continued on its
path without getting sucked in by the
Earth's gravitational pull
missing the planet completely and
letting the dinosaurs live out the rest
of their natural lives in peace or it
could have crashed into the ocean
instead of on land the water would have
absorbed the energy of the impact much
better so the chain of events that
followed wouldn't have been so
devastating no building sized chunks of
debris falling from the sky no heat
trapping and Sun blocking dust cloud and
no volcanic eruptions the tsunamis most
likely would have been worse flooding
coasts and certainly racking up a high
death toll but they probably wouldn't
have managed to wipe out entire species
it's unlikely that the resulting
earthquake would have been an 11-point 1
magnitude but it would have been
powerful enough to do some major damage
these scenarios leave the possibility of
the dinosaurs living and continuing to
evolve had this happened it would have
been virtually impossible for any of the
early mammals to survive long enough to
build to the numbers we have today most
of them in the Mesozoic area were just
rodent sized carnivores that hardly ever
got to be the size of a cat despite
being predators they were still prey to
larger carnivores not even their fast
breeding would have been able to
increase their populations quickly
enough to make them a dominant class
humans and related primates would in all
likelihood not exist were it not for
that ill-fated asteroid ooh lucky for us
not to mention the animals that
descended from dinosaurs like crocodiles
lizards snakes turtles and birds would
probably look much
more like their ancestors than they do
currently in the purely hypothetical
situation where dinosaurs never went
extinct their brains would have
continued to adapt and evolve along with
their bodies most species of dinosaur
had a relatively small brain to body
ratio and even though the larger dinos
had proportionately large brains they
still couldn't complete any complex
functions most paleontologists agree
that the Troodon was the smartest
dinosaur it had a body about the size of
a human's a brain the size of an avocado
pit and an intelligence level on par
with modern birds it was already using
visual and auditory signals in the Late
Cretaceous period
so just imagine what it would have
become if it were given millions of
years to develop it might today have a
job on Wall Street some scientists say
that the dinosaurs numbers had already
been steadily declining for thousands of
years before the asteroid hit so they
may have died out on their own without a
mass extinction event but this would
have happened over a much longer period
of time than the few months following
the catastrophic impact so there's no
telling how the timeline for the rise of
mammals would have been affected it may
still have happened but a lot of
variables could have stacked up the
wrong way
for instance the environment might not
have suited early mammal populations and
they might not have been able to adapt
quickly enough most early mammals were
carnivores and the insect population at
that time might not have been enough to
sustain them the mammals could easily
have had the same fate as the dinosaurs
with birth rates slowly decreasing over
millions of years until life would have
to start all over again but life finds a
way and something if not dinosaurs or
mammals would have managed to survive of
course we'll never know if any of this
is true but it's always fun to speculate
so what do you think the world would be
like if dinosaurs were still around with
the planet be better off
would we have to dodge large mountains
of dinosaur poop while driving to work
with Fred Flintstone finally get a raise
down at the rock quarry tell us what you
think in the comments below
give this video a like if you learn
something cool from it share it with
other people who will probably enjoy it
too and always remember to stay on the
bright side of life
you